# PRIVACY POLICY

Sensorama is a motion capture platform which comes with both mobile and
cloud (remote server) element.

If sensors on your phone are present and available, it tries to enable them
all. Sensors include, but are not limited to: accelerometer, magnetometer,
pedometer, barometer and temperature sensor.

As of this version of Sensorama doesn't enable nor take advantage of the GPS
directly. Your physical location isn't being considered and is not required
for Sensorama to work. We reserve the right to change it, in which case this
privacy policy will be updated.

Sensor data is captured on the phone and unconditionally uploaded to the
remote server to improve future versions of the application, as well as to
enable research and development based on captured data.

Uploaded data contains motion data from sensors mentioned above, sampled at
high frequency. Along with the data, uploaded are: your phone physical
orientation (landscape, portraint), your phone position (face up, face
down).

Just like any modern mobile application, Sensorama comes instrumented with
the analytics extension. The extension comes from the 3rd party vendor. As
of this version of Sensorama the analytics vendor is Twitter Answers. We
reserve the right to change it, in which case this privacy policy will be
updated. Analytics deliver information such as: number of views of each of
Sensorama screens, and which buttons on those screens were clicked.

Sensorama requires your e-mail for sign-up. E-mail is used for authorization
purposes, for which 3rd party vendor is used. As of this version of
Sensorama our authorization vendor is Auth0. We reserve the right to change
it, in which case this privacy policy will be updated.

If you're unwilling to participate in this motion capture research, please
DO NOT install Sensorama.
